docs/file-utils/README.md, before:

![Plex-O-Matic Title Image](../../public/Plex-O-Matic_README_Title_Image.webp)

# File Utilities

Plex-o-matic includes powerful utilities for handling file operations and standardizing media filenames.

## Name Utilities

The name utilities help standardize media filenames according to Plex's preferred naming conventions.

### File Name Detection

The system can detect common patterns in media filenames:

- **TV Show Pattern**: `ShowName.S01E02.EpisodeTitle.ext`
- **Movie Pattern**: `MovieName.2020.OptionalInfo.ext`

Example:

```python
from plexomatic.utils import extract_show_info

# TV Show example
info = extract_show_info("The.Office.S03E05.Episode.Title.mp4")
# Returns: {'show_name': 'The Office', 'season': '03', 'episode': '05', 'title': 'Episode.Title'}

# Movie example
info = extract_show_info("Inception.2010.1080p.mp4")
# Returns: {'movie_name': 'Inception', 'year': '2010', 'info': '1080p'}
```

### Filename Generation

You can generate standardized filenames for TV shows and movies:

```python
from plexomatic.utils import generate_tv_filename, generate_movie_filename

# Generate TV show filename
tv_filename = generate_tv_filename("The Office", 3, 5, "Business School", ".mp4")
# Returns: "The.Office.S03E05.Business.School.mp4"

# Generate movie filename
movie_filename = generate_movie_filename("Inception", 2010, ".mp4")
# Returns: "Inception.2010.mp4"
```

### Filename Sanitization

The `sanitize_filename` function ensures that filenames don't contain invalid characters:

```python
from plexomatic.utils import sanitize_filename

safe_name = sanitize_filename("File: with invalid? chars")
# Returns: "File_ with invalid_ chars"
```

### Preview Rename

Before renaming files, you can preview the changes:

```python
from pathlib import Path
from plexomatic.utils import get_preview_rename

original_path = Path("/media/tv/The Office S3E5 Business School.mp4")
original, new = get_preview_rename(original_path)

if new:
    print(f"Would rename: {original.name} → {new.name}")
```

## Template System

Plex-o-matic provides a flexible template system for customizing filename formats. The template system allows you to define and use custom naming patterns for different media types.

```python
from plexomatic.utils.template_formatter import replace_variables
from plexomatic.utils.name_parser import ParsedMediaName, MediaType

parsed = ParsedMediaName(
    media_type=MediaType.TV_SHOW,
    title="Breaking Bad",
    season=1,
    episodes=[5],
    extension="mp4"
)

template = "{title}.S{season:02d}E{episode:02d}{extension}"
result = replace_variables(template, parsed)
# Result: "Breaking.Bad.S01E05.mp4"
```

For detailed documentation on the template system, see the [Template System Documentation](template_system.md).

## File Operations

Plex-o-matic provides file operations with built-in backup functionality.

### Safe File Renaming

The `rename_file` function safely renames files with backup support:

```python
from pathlib import Path
from plexomatic.utils import rename_file
from plexomatic.core.backup_system import BackupSystem

# Initialize backup system
backup_system = BackupSystem(Path("~/.plexomatic/plexomatic.db").expanduser())
backup_system.initialize_database()

# Rename a file with backup
success = rename_file(
    Path("/media/tv/The Office S3E5.mp4"),
    Path("/media/tv/The.Office.S03E05.mp4"),
    backup_system
)
```

### Checksums

File operations use checksums to verify integrity:

```python
from plexomatic.utils import calculate_file_checksum

checksum = calculate_file_checksum(Path("file.mp4"))
```

### Rollback Operations

You can roll back file operations:

```python
from plexomatic.utils import rollback_operation

# Rollback operation by ID
success = rollback_operation(operation_id=42, backup_system=backup_system)
```

## Using with the CLI

The CLI commands for preview, apply, and rollback use these utilities:

```bash
# Preview changes
plexomatic preview --path /media/tv_shows

# Apply changes
plexomatic apply --path /media/tv_shows

# Rollback
plexomatic rollback
```

Commit message:

docs: add subtitle support documentation

docs/file-utils/README.md, after:

![Plex-O-Matic Title Image](../../public/Plex-O-Matic_README_Title_Image.webp)

# File Utilities

Plex-o-matic includes powerful utilities for handling file operations and standardizing media filenames.

## Name Utilities

The name utilities help standardize media filenames according to Plex's preferred naming conventions.

### File Name Detection

The system can detect common patterns in media filenames:

- **TV Show Pattern**: `ShowName.S01E02.EpisodeTitle.ext`
- **Movie Pattern**: `MovieName.2020.OptionalInfo.ext`

Example:

```python
from plexomatic.utils import extract_show_info

# TV Show example
info = extract_show_info("The.Office.S03E05.Episode.Title.mp4")
# Returns: {'show_name': 'The Office', 'season': '03', 'episode': '05', 'title': 'Episode.Title'}

# Movie example
info = extract_show_info("Inception.2010.1080p.mp4")
# Returns: {'movie_name': 'Inception', 'year': '2010', 'info': '1080p'}
```

### Filename Generation

You can generate standardized filenames for TV shows and movies:

```python
from plexomatic.utils import generate_tv_filename, generate_movie_filename

# Generate TV show filename
tv_filename = generate_tv_filename("The Office", 3, 5, "Business School", ".mp4")
# Returns: "The.Office.S03E05.Business.School.mp4"

# Generate movie filename
movie_filename = generate_movie_filename("Inception", 2010, ".mp4")
# Returns: "Inception.2010.mp4"
```

### Filename Sanitization

The `sanitize_filename` function ensures that filenames don't contain invalid characters:

```python
from plexomatic.utils import sanitize_filename

safe_name = sanitize_filename("File: with invalid? chars")
# Returns: "File_ with invalid_ chars"
```

### Preview Rename

Before renaming files, you can preview the changes:

```python
from pathlib import Path
from plexomatic.utils import get_preview_rename

original_path = Path("/media/tv/The Office S3E5 Business School.mp4")
original, new = get_preview_rename(original_path)

if new:
    print(f"Would rename: {original.name} → {new.name}")
```

## Template System

Plex-o-matic provides a flexible template system for customizing filename formats. The template system allows you to define and use custom naming patterns for different media types.

```python
from plexomatic.utils.template_formatter import replace_variables
from plexomatic.utils.name_parser import ParsedMediaName, MediaType

parsed = ParsedMediaName(
    media_type=MediaType.TV_SHOW,
    title="Breaking Bad",
    season=1,
    episodes=[5],
    extension="mp4"
)

template = "{title}.S{season:02d}E{episode:02d}{extension}"
result = replace_variables(template, parsed)
# Result: "Breaking.Bad.S01E05.mp4"
```

For detailed documentation on the template system, see the [Template System Documentation](template_system.md).

## Subtitle Support

Plex-o-matic includes comprehensive subtitle file handling capabilities:

- Detection of subtitle files in various formats (`.srt`, `.sub`, `.vtt`, etc.)
- Automatic language detection from filenames
- Support for "forced" and "SDH" subtitle types
- Matching subtitle files to their corresponding media
- Renaming to follow Plex naming conventions

```python
from plexomatic.core.subtitle_scanner import SubtitleFile, scan_for_subtitles, match_subtitles_to_media

# Scan for subtitle files
subtitles = scan_for_subtitles("/path/to/media", [".srt", ".sub", ".vtt"])

# Work with subtitle files
for subtitle in subtitles:
    print(f"Found {subtitle.language} subtitle: {subtitle.path.name}")
```

For complete details on subtitle support, see the [Subtitle Support Documentation](subtitle_support.md).

## File Operations

Plex-o-matic provides file operations with built-in backup functionality.

### Safe File Renaming

The `rename_file` function safely renames files with backup support:

```python
from pathlib import Path
from plexomatic.utils import rename_file
from plexomatic.core.backup_system import BackupSystem

# Initialize backup system
backup_system = BackupSystem(Path("~/.plexomatic/plexomatic.db").expanduser())
backup_system.initialize_database()

# Rename a file with backup
success = rename_file(
    Path("/media/tv/The Office S3E5.mp4"),
    Path("/media/tv/The.Office.S03E05.mp4"),
    backup_system
)
```

### Checksums

File operations use checksums to verify integrity:

```python
from plexomatic.utils import calculate_file_checksum

checksum = calculate_file_checksum(Path("file.mp4"))
```

### Rollback Operations

You can roll back file operations:

```python
from plexomatic.utils import rollback_operation

# Rollback operation by ID
success = rollback_operation(operation_id=42, backup_system=backup_system)
```

## Using with the CLI

The CLI commands for preview, apply, and rollback use these utilities:

```bash
# Preview changes
plexomatic preview --path /media/tv_shows

# Apply changes
plexomatic apply --path /media/tv_shows

# Rollback
plexomatic rollback
```
