docs/README.md, before:

# Plex-o-matic Documentation

Welcome to the Plex-o-matic documentation. This guide will help you understand how to use and get the most out of Plex-o-matic for organizing your media files.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Usage Guide](#usage-guide)
- [Documentation Sections](#documentation-sections)
- [FAQs](#faqs)

## Getting Started

Plex-o-matic is a powerful tool designed to help you organize your media files for Plex. It automates the process of scanning, renaming, and organizing media files according to Plex's preferred naming conventions.

### Installation

```bash
pip install plex-o-matic
```

## Usage Guide

Once installed, you can use Plex-o-matic via the command line interface:

```bash
# Scan your media directory
plexomatic scan --path /path/to/your/media

# Preview changes that would be made
plexomatic preview

# Apply the changes if they look good
plexomatic apply

# If something goes wrong, rollback
plexomatic rollback
```

For more detailed usage instructions, please refer to the [CLI Documentation](cli/README.md).

## Documentation Sections

- [CLI Documentation](cli/README.md): Detailed information on using the command line interface.
- [Configuration System](configuration/README.md): Information about configuring Plex-o-matic.
- [File Utilities](file-utils/README.md): Documentation on filename standardization and file operations.
- [Backend Architecture](backend/README.md): Information about the backend design and components.
- [Database Schema](database/README.md): Documentation on the database structure and schema.
- [API Integration](api/README.md): Documentation on API clients and integration.
- [Metadata Management](metadata/README.md): Information about the metadata management system.

## Features

Plex-o-matic provides several powerful features:

### Media File Scanning
- Recursive directory scanning
- Configurable file extensions
- Ignore patterns for samples and extras

### Filename Standardization
- TV show filename detection and standardization
- Movie filename detection and standardization
- Multi-episode detection
- Proper Plex-compatible naming

### Safe File Operations
- Backup system with SQLite integration
- Checksum verification
- Operation rollback capability

### Configuration System
- JSON-based configuration
- Environment variable support
- Extensible options

## FAQs

### How does Plex-o-matic handle existing files?

Plex-o-matic uses a backup system to keep track of all file operations. This ensures that any changes made can be rolled back if needed. Each operation is recorded in a SQLite database with checksums for verification.

### Can I use Plex-o-matic with existing Plex installations?

Yes, Plex-o-matic is designed to work with existing Plex installations and follows Plex's naming conventions. It doesn't modify your Plex database, only the files themselves.

### How do I customize the file extensions that are processed?

You can configure the allowed file extensions in the configuration file (`~/.plexomatic/config.json`) or by using the `--extensions` option in the CLI:

```bash
plexomatic scan --path /media --extensions .mp4,.mkv
```

### Can I preview changes before applying them?

Yes, you can use the `preview` command to see what changes would be made without actually making any changes:

```bash
plexomatic preview --path /media
```

### How do I rollback changes if something goes wrong?

You can use the `rollback` command to undo the last operation:

```bash
plexomatic rollback
```

Or specify a specific operation ID:

```bash
plexomatic rollback --operation-id 42
```

Commit message:

Add metadata management system and configure command

docs/README.md, after:

# Plex-o-matic Documentation

Welcome to the Plex-o-matic documentation. This guide will help you understand how to use and get the most out of Plex-o-matic for organizing your media files.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Usage Guide](#usage-guide)
- [Documentation Sections](#documentation-sections)
- [FAQs](#faqs)

## Getting Started

Plex-o-matic is a powerful tool designed to help you organize your media files for Plex. It automates the process of scanning, renaming, and organizing media files according to Plex's preferred naming conventions.

### Installation

```bash
pip install plex-o-matic
```

## Usage Guide

Once installed, you can use Plex-o-matic via the command line interface:

```bash
# Set up your API keys and configuration
plexomatic configure

# Scan your media directory
plexomatic scan --path /path/to/your/media

# Preview changes that would be made
plexomatic preview

# Apply the changes if they look good
plexomatic apply

# If something goes wrong, rollback
plexomatic rollback
```

For more detailed usage instructions, please refer to the [CLI Documentation](cli/README.md).

## Documentation Sections

- [CLI Documentation](cli/README.md): Detailed information on using the command line interface.
- [Configuration System](configuration/README.md): Information about configuring Plex-o-matic.
- [File Utilities](file-utils/README.md): Documentation on filename standardization and file operations.
- [Backend Architecture](backend/README.md): Information about the backend design and components.
- [Database Schema](database/README.md): Documentation on the database structure and schema.
- [API Integration](api/README.md): Documentation on API clients and integration.
- [Metadata Management](metadata/README.md): Information about the metadata management system.

## Features

Plex-o-matic provides several powerful features:

### Media File Scanning
- Recursive directory scanning
- Configurable file extensions
- Ignore patterns for samples and extras

### Filename Standardization
- TV show filename detection and standardization
- Movie filename detection and standardization
- Multi-episode detection
- Proper Plex-compatible naming

### Safe File Operations
- Backup system with SQLite integration
- Checksum verification
- Operation rollback capability

### Configuration System
- JSON-based configuration
- Environment variable support
- Extensible options
- Interactive configuration via CLI

## FAQs

### How does Plex-o-matic handle existing files?

Plex-o-matic uses a backup system to keep track of all file operations. This ensures that any changes made can be rolled back if needed. Each operation is recorded in a SQLite database with checksums for verification.

### Can I use Plex-o-matic with existing Plex installations?

Yes, Plex-o-matic is designed to work with existing Plex installations and follows Plex's naming conventions. It doesn't modify your Plex database, only the files themselves.

### How do I customize the file extensions that are processed?

You can configure the allowed file extensions in the configuration file (`~/.plexomatic/config.json`) or by using the `--extensions` option in the CLI:

```bash
plexomatic scan --path /media --extensions .mp4,.mkv
```

### Can I preview changes before applying them?

Yes, you can use the `preview` command to see what changes would be made without actually making any changes:

```bash
plexomatic preview --path /media
```

### How do I rollback changes if something goes wrong?

You can use the `rollback` command to undo the last operation:

```bash
plexomatic rollback
```

Or specify a specific operation ID:

```bash
plexomatic rollback --operation-id 42
```

### How do I set up API keys for metadata sources?

You can use the interactive configuration command:

```bash
plexomatic configure
```

This will guide you through setting up API keys for TVDB, TMDB, and other metadata sources. It's the recommended way to configure Plex-o-matic rather than editing the configuration file manually.
